two days later it's dawn as the ship
approaches the English Channel they're
now exactly halfway through their
journey even out at sea there's plenty
of work to keep captain Jensen and his
crew busy as Captain Lars is responsible
not just for his ship but also his cargo
worth a staggering three billion dollars
so no pressure there I have the
responsibility for the cargo and I had
to deliver it back in the same condition
as I received it that's the main purpose
for the this trade actually the masks
cargo of 11,000 containers is just a
handful of the 20 million being
transported around the world at any one
time these containers need to be
regularly inspected to ensure all
refrigerated Reapers are working
properly that job is the responsibility
of chief officer bogey Kai's burn arriva
broke down the cargo inside will be
called the ruins so we need to take
action immediately and
and if the repair to stuff possible
well I haven't tried that yet luckily
it'll be terrible
together with electrician yawns are they
keep a close eye on the hundreds of
Reapers on board to ensure everything is
running smoothly each unit must run it
precisely the right temperature
depending upon its cargo meanwhile eight
floors below deck third engineer Balaji
Krishna is inspecting the enormous
diesel engine it's hot noisy work and
definitely not a task for the outdoors
type it's very seldom we get to see the
Sun but of course on the weekends we can
go out back and have some compression
and have a look at the Sun
the massive engine drives a 500 foot
long propeller shaft the longest ever
built it's balaji's job to ensure every
part of this massive propulsion system
keeps working properly especially
important since there are no repair
shops in the middle of the ocean should
they break down fortunately once the
cruise ships are over there's time to
relax and balaji has emerged from the
engine room to challenge bogie to a game
of table tennis
later they can unwind in the onboard
library or TV room or even take a jog
around the deck
four days after departing algeciras
captain Jensen is on the bridge
preparing for the most hazardous stage
of their two thousand two hundred mile
journey piloting the ship into Rotterdam
it is always more dangerous to come into
port too confined waters restricted
areas instead of being on under ocean
getting a ship the size of a skyscraper
in to Rotterdam is so hazardous but
despite 35 years experience at sea
captain Jensen still requires health so
making his way through the choppy sea to
join him his Harbor pilot itza
Itza has been guiding ships in to
Rotterdam for 20 years and there's no
greater challenge than navigating a ship
the size of the Estill mares
the main bitch anymore it's the weight a
lot of wings and a lot of big force
another special yes control to make
matters worse a stiff breeze is blowing
in from the north sea meaning Itza and
Captain Jensen will have a tough time
keeping the vessel under control
20 the Estelle is so large she can't
simply sail forward into her birth mr.
Foster
one of the world's largest ships is
forced to undertake a three-point turn
it's a slow nerve-racking procedure and
requires all the crews concentration
finally after an hour of careful
maneuvering just before sundown to ship
tethers to the Rotterdam dockside yeah
the nice day yes thank you sorry excuse
what you playin hah yeah thank you
bye-bye as pilot itza disembarks captain
jensen can reflect on a job well done so
always a good feeling to bring the
shipping and i actually like the job to
to handle that ship so i'm very pleased
with it actually
while Captain Jensen gets the chance to
relax the dock loaders are tasked with
digging out the container of plums from
among the 11,000 on deck it's a long
slow process as a huge gantry crane
moves containers to and from the ship
before finally plucking the Reaper of
plums from obscurity
then a bizarre spider like mobile crane
moves in to transport the container from
the dockside
the next morning a truck carrying the
plum container leaves the port and just
hours later its cargo arrives at the
supermarket incredibly the fruit has
been transported from Spain to Denmark
in just five days so the next time
you're out doing your shopping you might
like to consider all the people who have
worked to ensure the supermarket shelf
is well stocked and we can all enjoy the
fruits of their labor